README.md, before:

# Dungeongen

A procedural dungeon generation and rendering system for tabletop RPG maps.

![Temple Dungeon](docs/dungeon_temple.png)

## Features

### Layout Generation
- **Procedural room placement** with configurable room sizes and shapes (rectangular, circular)
- **Intelligent passage routing** that connects rooms with hallways
- **Multiple symmetry modes**: None, Bilateral (mirror), Radial-2, Radial-4
- **Dungeon archetypes**: Classic, Warren, Temple, Crypt, Lair
- **Configurable density**: Sparse, Normal, Tight packing
- **Automatic door placement** with open/closed states
- **Stairs and dungeon exits**

### Rendering
- **Hand-drawn aesthetic** with crosshatch shading and organic lines
- **Water features** with procedural shorelines and ripple effects
- **Room decorations**: columns, altars, fountains, dais platforms, rocks
- **High-quality SVG and PNG output**
- **Grid overlay** for tabletop play

### Water System
Procedural water generation using noise-based field generation:
- **Depth levels**: Dry, Puddles, Pools, Lakes, Flooded
- **Organic shorelines** using marching squares with Chaikin smoothing
- **Ripple effects** that follow contour curves

## Project Structure

```
dungeongen/
├── src/dungeongen/      # Main package
│   ├── layout/          # Dungeon layout generation
│   │   ├── generator.py # Main procedural generator
│   │   ├── models.py    # Room, Passage, Door data models
│   │   ├── params.py    # Generation parameters
│   │   └── validator.py # Layout validation
│   │
│   ├── map/             # Map rendering system
│   │   ├── map.py       # Main renderer
│   │   ├── room.py      # Room rendering
│   │   ├── passage.py   # Passage rendering
│   │   ├── water_layer.py # Water generation
│   │   └── _props/      # Decorations (columns, altars, etc.)
│   │
│   ├── drawing/         # Drawing utilities
│   │   ├── crosshatch.py    # Crosshatch shading
│   │   └── water.py         # Water rendering
│   │
│   ├── algorithms/      # Generic algorithms
│   │   ├── marching_squares.py  # Contour extraction
│   │   ├── chaikin.py          # Curve smoothing
│   │   └── poisson.py          # Poisson disk sampling
│   │
│   ├── graphics/        # Graphics utilities
│   │   ├── noise.py     # Perlin noise, FBM
│   │   └── shapes.py    # Shape primitives
│   │
│   └── webview/         # Interactive web preview
│       ├── app.py       # Flask application
│       └── templates/   # HTML templates
│
├── tests/               # Test suite
├── docs/                # Documentation
└── pyproject.toml       # Package configuration
```

## Installation

### From PyPI
```bash
pip install dungeongen
```

### From Source (for development)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/benjcooley/dungeongen.git
cd dungeongen
pip install -e .
```

### Dependencies
- Python 3.10+
- skia-python (rendering)
- numpy (noise generation)
- Flask (web preview)
- rich (logging)

## Usage

### Web Preview
```bash
python -m dungeongen.webview.app
```
Then open http://localhost:5050 in your browser.

### Python API
```python
from dungeongen.layout import DungeonGenerator, GenerationParams, DungeonSize, SymmetryType
from dungeongen.webview.adapter import convert_dungeon
from dungeongen.map.water_layer import WaterDepth
import skia

# Configure generation
params = GenerationParams()
params.size = DungeonSize.MEDIUM
params.symmetry = SymmetryType.BILATERAL

# Generate layout
generator = DungeonGenerator(params)
dungeon = generator.generate(seed=42)

# Convert to renderable map with water
dungeon_map = convert_dungeon(dungeon, water_depth=WaterDepth.POOLS)

# Render to PNG
width, height = 1200, 1200
surface = skia.Surface(width, height)
canvas = surface.getCanvas()
canvas.clear(skia.Color(255, 255, 255))

transform = dungeon_map._calculate_default_transform(width, height)
dungeon_map.render(canvas, transform)

image = surface.makeImageSnapshot()
image.save('my_dungeon.png', skia.kPNG)
```

## Configuration Options

### Dungeon Size
- `TINY` - 4-6 rooms
- `SMALL` - 6-10 rooms  
- `MEDIUM` - 10-20 rooms
- `LARGE` - 20-35 rooms
- `XLARGE` - 35-50 rooms

### Symmetry Types
- `NONE` - Asymmetric layout
- `BILATERAL` - Mirror symmetry (left/right)
- `RADIAL_2` - 180° rotational symmetry
- `RADIAL_4` - 90° rotational symmetry (4-fold)

### Water Depth
- `DRY` - No water
- `PUDDLES` - ~45% coverage
- `POOLS` - ~65% coverage
- `LAKES` - ~82% coverage
- `FLOODED` - ~90% coverage

## License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

![Example Dungeon](docs/dungeon_example.png)

Commit message:

Add acknowledgments for watabou's One Page Dungeon inspiration

README.md, after:

# Dungeongen

A procedural dungeon generation and rendering system for tabletop RPG maps.

![Temple Dungeon](docs/dungeon_temple.png)

## Features

### Layout Generation
- **Procedural room placement** with configurable room sizes and shapes (rectangular, circular)
- **Intelligent passage routing** that connects rooms with hallways
- **Multiple symmetry modes**: None, Bilateral (mirror), Radial-2, Radial-4
- **Dungeon archetypes**: Classic, Warren, Temple, Crypt, Lair
- **Configurable density**: Sparse, Normal, Tight packing
- **Automatic door placement** with open/closed states
- **Stairs and dungeon exits**

### Rendering
- **Hand-drawn aesthetic** with crosshatch shading and organic lines
- **Water features** with procedural shorelines and ripple effects
- **Room decorations**: columns, altars, fountains, dais platforms, rocks
- **High-quality SVG and PNG output**
- **Grid overlay** for tabletop play

### Water System
Procedural water generation using noise-based field generation:
- **Depth levels**: Dry, Puddles, Pools, Lakes, Flooded
- **Organic shorelines** using marching squares with Chaikin smoothing
- **Ripple effects** that follow contour curves

## Project Structure

```
dungeongen/
├── src/dungeongen/      # Main package
│   ├── layout/          # Dungeon layout generation
│   │   ├── generator.py # Main procedural generator
│   │   ├── models.py    # Room, Passage, Door data models
│   │   ├── params.py    # Generation parameters
│   │   └── validator.py # Layout validation
│   │
│   ├── map/             # Map rendering system
│   │   ├── map.py       # Main renderer
│   │   ├── room.py      # Room rendering
│   │   ├── passage.py   # Passage rendering
│   │   ├── water_layer.py # Water generation
│   │   └── _props/      # Decorations (columns, altars, etc.)
│   │
│   ├── drawing/         # Drawing utilities
│   │   ├── crosshatch.py    # Crosshatch shading
│   │   └── water.py         # Water rendering
│   │
│   ├── algorithms/      # Generic algorithms
│   │   ├── marching_squares.py  # Contour extraction
│   │   ├── chaikin.py          # Curve smoothing
│   │   └── poisson.py          # Poisson disk sampling
│   │
│   ├── graphics/        # Graphics utilities
│   │   ├── noise.py     # Perlin noise, FBM
│   │   └── shapes.py    # Shape primitives
│   │
│   └── webview/         # Interactive web preview
│       ├── app.py       # Flask application
│       └── templates/   # HTML templates
│
├── tests/               # Test suite
├── docs/                # Documentation
└── pyproject.toml       # Package configuration
```

## Installation

### From PyPI
```bash
pip install dungeongen
```

### From Source (for development)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/benjcooley/dungeongen.git
cd dungeongen
pip install -e .
```

### Dependencies
- Python 3.10+
- skia-python (rendering)
- numpy (noise generation)
- Flask (web preview)
- rich (logging)

## Usage

### Web Preview
```bash
python -m dungeongen.webview.app
```
Then open http://localhost:5050 in your browser.

### Python API
```python
from dungeongen.layout import DungeonGenerator, GenerationParams, DungeonSize, SymmetryType
from dungeongen.webview.adapter import convert_dungeon
from dungeongen.map.water_layer import WaterDepth
import skia

# Configure generation
params = GenerationParams()
params.size = DungeonSize.MEDIUM
params.symmetry = SymmetryType.BILATERAL

# Generate layout
generator = DungeonGenerator(params)
dungeon = generator.generate(seed=42)

# Convert to renderable map with water
dungeon_map = convert_dungeon(dungeon, water_depth=WaterDepth.POOLS)

# Render to PNG
width, height = 1200, 1200
surface = skia.Surface(width, height)
canvas = surface.getCanvas()
canvas.clear(skia.Color(255, 255, 255))

transform = dungeon_map._calculate_default_transform(width, height)
dungeon_map.render(canvas, transform)

image = surface.makeImageSnapshot()
image.save('my_dungeon.png', skia.kPNG)
```

## Configuration Options

### Dungeon Size
- `TINY` - 4-6 rooms
- `SMALL` - 6-10 rooms  
- `MEDIUM` - 10-20 rooms
- `LARGE` - 20-35 rooms
- `XLARGE` - 35-50 rooms

### Symmetry Types
- `NONE` - Asymmetric layout
- `BILATERAL` - Mirror symmetry (left/right)
- `RADIAL_2` - 180° rotational symmetry
- `RADIAL_4` - 90° rotational symmetry (4-fold)

### Water Depth
- `DRY` - No water
- `PUDDLES` - ~45% coverage
- `POOLS` - ~65% coverage
- `LAKES` - ~82% coverage
- `FLOODED` - ~90% coverage

## Acknowledgments

This project was inspired by [**watabou's One Page Dungeon**](https://watabou.itch.io/one-page-dungeon), a fantastic procedural dungeon generator. The hand-drawn crosshatch aesthetic and overall visual style draw heavily from watabou's work.

- **One Page Dungeon Generator**: https://watabou.itch.io/one-page-dungeon
- **watabou's other generators**: https://watabou.itch.io/
- **Source code (Haxe)**: https://github.com/watabou/one-page-dungeon

Note: This project is a complete rewrite in Python, not a port. While inspired by watabou's visual style and procedural generation concepts, the algorithms and implementation are original.

## License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

![Example Dungeon](docs/dungeon_example.png)
